# steering_algorithm

Team Gamma

The steering algorithm picks up where the desired state generator left off. It subscribes to the "desState" message published by the des_state_generator node. Then it unpacks the pose held within the received desState message. From this it calculates the error in the current position of the robot according to where the desired state is located. This steering algorithm is intended to minimize the error present in the values generated by the des_state_generator. These values are estimated values of where the robot should be in a mathematical, graphical approach. The graph can be dynamic or static, with odom being the earlier and AMCL being the latter.

Essentially, the mathematical values are not completely correct until the error estimation is accounted for. Since the robot is usually moving while desired states are being produced, these have errors, although they may be slight. The steering algorithm is necessary to minimize error because slight error in heading, lateral, and trip distance can lead the robot completely off course. This node catches the error early on and accounts for it after it breaches a certain tolerance. All of the tolerances are tuned to be the best for the robots environment and hardware. The odometer readings have a left-drift, so we also account for that when heading error tells the robot it should move right.

The error evident in robot navigation after the steering algorithm accounts for the heading, lateral, and trip distance errors is marginal. The robot reaches its goal with minimal error that allows it to maintain its location when re-iterating its path again. In this sense, the steering algorithm tames the error to the point that the journey is repeatable given the robot will not have to cross through any walls to reach a point diagonal to the first point in the path. This means that when the robot is off course from a path, it will find the shortest path to take from its current location to the desired initial location in order to get back on track.

To run the steering algorithm node:

rosrun steering_algorithm steering_algorithm

Many useful printouts will be on the console as it runs. These print-outs include values for desired state and the current odom values, along with values pertinent to the error minimization procedure.
